I'm about to tell you something that goes against everything that you've ever heard about  breaking into the tech industry.  Do not get the A plus certification.  It's only going to slow you down and hold you back from getting that first tech job that  you really want to land.  And I know that sounds crazy because everybody says that the A plus certification is foundational  to landing your first tech job, but that's just not the case.  And this is coming from somebody who got the A plus certification to break into the tech  industry.  But I want you to know that if you are an adult over the age of 18 years old, I do not  believe that you should focus on the A plus certification to land your first tech role.  You see, when I first got the A plus certification, this was way back in 2008, 2009, when I first  got this certification, it was only $126 and that was for both parts.  And I was 16 years old.  And when I got this certification, it allowed me to get a help desk role.  But if you are an adult over the age of 18, when employers look at the A plus certification,  that does not impress them.  You want to get certifications that show, hey, we can use this person in more than one way.  You don't even need to get any certifications to land a help desk job before being completely  honest here.  The only reason why I recommend the security plus is for gub tech.  In gub tech, the security plus allows you to get root or administrative access to government  systems.  The only reason why I recommend it.  But outside of that, I even have some people that have learned from me that have landed  health desk jobs and they had no certification whatsoever.  See, I've been in the gub tech industry for over 16 years now and I've seen it time and  time again, where many people will waste months, some even years, some people don't ever  even pass the A plus certification and then they give up on their dreams and their goals  of getting their first tech job.  Instead, you could have just been focusing on some tech certifications that would have  actually helped you land some high paying tech roles.  So in this video, I'm going to explain to you exactly why you should skip the A plus  certification and which certifications you should focus on if you want to land your first  job in tech.  Before we really dive into this video, I want to break down why so many people recommend  the A plus certification for breaking into tech anyway.  And this certification is a part of an old strategy that just does not work anymore.  This old strategy was called the CompTIA trifecta.  This was where you'd get the CompTIA A plus certification, network plus certification and  the security plus certification.  This does not work in 2025, not even in 2026.  This method is old, outdated and it costs a lot of money and it will not get you the results  that you actually want.  CompTIA has updated this certification over the years.  So it does focus on more than just basic troubleshooting IT skills.  It does actually cover more about virtualization, networking, even some cloud to this day.  Even though CompTIA has updated the A plus certification to cover these different topics  now, the A plus certification is a mile wide and an inch deep.  You do not need to know all of the things that are in the A plus certification to prove  that you can work a help desk job.  So for me to break down to you what help desk is so everybody can understand it, help desk  is the customer support of information technology.  So basically when anybody needs any type of IT or computer support, they will pick up the  phone or open up a ticket through their ticketing system and they'll let you know what's wrong  with their system.  Once they let you know what's wrong, you as the help desk IT professional will respond  to what their issue is and you'll help resolve their issue.  The main skills that you need for help desk is understanding the basics of computers,  understanding the basics of software, remote desktop, also understanding ticketing and basic  troubleshooting skills.  But this is the part that a lot of people fail to mention when it comes to help desk.  All you are doing is following directions.  If you understand the basics of computers and can follow directions, you can work a help  desk job.  And if anything goes beyond your tier one help desk support, all you do is escalate  the issue to tier two or whichever team is going to handle the issue.  It does not take a tech genius to work a help desk job and I'm just going to be completely  honest in this video guys.  I want you to know, people try to overcompocate what help desk is, what IT support is because  they do not want you working in this industry.  There are so many people that are afraid of new people coming into this industry that  they'll literally tell you that you need to get five different certifications.  Oh, you need to be a genius.  You need to do five different projects.  You do not need to do any of that to land your first help desk job.  And if you've never heard anybody tell you the truth like this before, make sure you  like and subscribe so you can watch more of my videos.  I keep it 100% real and authentic to tell you the real deal about what works and how  you can actually get jobs in the tech industry.  I also want you to know that help desk is not a lifelong career.  You do not want to be stuck in help desk.  So when you focus on getting the A plus certification and then it's time for you to move up into  system administrator roles or maybe even network administrator roles or like a lot of people  nowadays want to get into cyber security.  The A plus certification is not going to help you get there.  So now you are going to be in help desk for much longer than what you need to be versus  if you focus on more advanced certifications, that will allow you to job hop and leave  help desk within six to eight months.  That's what's going to allow you to make the money that you want to make and get into  the career that you actually want to get into when you're working in tech.  Again, help desk is not a career.  It's just a entry level job in IT.  It's literally the customer support of IT.  You do not want to be stuck here for 10 plus years because you thought that help desk  was a career.  So what certifications are better for you to get to land your first tech job and to move  up in your career.  The first certification is the security plus certification, which is also offered by  CompTIA.  Now, this certification is not a certification that's going to help you become a cyber security  expert or even a cyber security practitioner.  This certification helps you understand the foundational knowledge behind cyber security.  And when it comes to GovTech, the security plus certification is one of the baseline information  assurance certifications that allow you to get root access or administrative access to  government systems.  I spoke on this a little bit before earlier on in this video, but basically what this means  is when you get the security plus certification, your employer will be able to give you full  access to the government systems.  And when it comes to getting this certification, your company will be able to use you in  many more ways than just basic customer support for IT.  Since you'll be able to have root access to the system, they'll start allowing you to  do some very simple information assurance tasks.  They also might allow you to do some identity access management tasks.  And some companies might even allow you to do some vulnerability scans.  You'd be surprised how many security tasks are passed down to help desk in GovTech.  You also can combine the security plus certification with the networking certification that's  offered by Cisco, called the Cisco CCNA.  This certification pretty much shows that you understand Cisco networks and switches  at a very deep technical level, even though it's still entry level.  Some people consider it a mid-level certification.  If you know that you want to do things with networking, maybe fiber optic cables, this is the  certification that you should go for, especially if you know you want to work in a data center.  Let me know in the comments if you want me to make a full video talking about opportunities  that are going to be available because of AI in data centers in the future.  Learning networking skills early on in your career is one of the best things that you  can do because these networking skills are going to help you in many different careers.  If you wanted to get into cloud, you need to have a good understanding of networking.  If you want to get into cyber security, you need to have a great understanding of networking  as well.  Learning these networking skills pretty early on in your career is going to allow you to  get a good head start and move up quickly in your career so you don't get stuck in help desk.  With the security plus and CCNA certification, you can look at data center technician roles,  network technician roles.  Some people are able to even land network administration roles as well.  Another skill that is extremely slept on for people that are trying to get into tech is Linux.  When it comes to Linux, everything literally runs on Linux.  Linux is just another operating system.  So when you think about operating systems, you're thinking about windows, you might be thinking  about Mac OS, Linux is operating system that the world literally runs on everywhere you  look.  These systems are using Linux cloud uses Linux, AWS their CLI is built off of Linux.  Also embedded systems are built off of Linux.  So if you're looking at either robotics or maybe even any government systems, most of them  run off of red hat enterprise Linux specifically.  Now, I'll be honest, jumping into Linux is going to be more challenging because it's  completely hands on and it's going to be very different for a lot of people if you've  never dealt with the command line interface before, which is also known as the CLI.  But just because it's going to be challenging does not mean it's something that you cannot  do.  And in my opinion, the best way for you to learn Linux skills and to become certified  in Linux is by getting the red hat certified since admin certification.  Red hat is another flavor of Linux.  There's a lot of different Linux distributions when it comes to cyber security, a lot of  people know about Cali Linux, or if you've ever dealt with hack the box, they used to work  with parent Linux.  But the reason why companies like to deal with red hat enterprise Linux is because if they  ever need any support, red hat provides enterprise support.  So if something goes wrong, they can just call red hat and red hat will send out their  specialists to troubleshoot the issues.  When it comes to the certifications that red hat offers, the red hat certifies its admin  certification is the one that you want to get.  I've already made a video about CompT Linux plus versus the RACSA on my other channels  so if you want to go watch that, I'll put the link in the description below.  But the RACSA is the best certification because it is completely hands on.  So when you combine the RACSA certification and the security plus certification, this will  allow you to become open to junior Linux system administrator roles.  These junior Linux system administrator roles can pay anywhere from $90,000 a year to $110,000  a year starting out.  But remember, this is going to be challenging and it's going to take longer because you'll  need to get the security plus certification and the RACSA, which you will need to completely  self teach yourself.  I made a full video on exactly how you can pass the security plus 701 certification.  I put the link in the description below and this will help you pass the security plus  on your first try.  If you're looking to self teach yourself, you literally can just use Sonderbond Boots,  red hat certifies its admin course that's on O'Reilly, it's $50 a month.  Very simple, very easy to use.  And for the people that are looking for more hands on help, they want a full program,  somebody to walk them through.  I recommend Yellowtail Tech and this is going to be one of the best ways for you to learn  if you want somebody to hold your hand the entire way.  And I'll put links to both of these in the description below.  When it comes to the security plus certification, the CCNA certification and the RACSA certification,  I do not think these are harder than the A plus certification.  I know expert senior level cybersecurity engineers who never passed the A plus but that  does not mean that they're not good at their jobs and it doesn't mean that they weren't  smart enough to pass it.  All it means is that the A plus is full of a ton of fluff.  It's a mile wide and an inch deep and it's a lot of information that is very hard to retain.  And it's information that you do not need to excel on the job when it comes to help desk  or to excel in any tech job for that matter.  Now if you're struggling to break into your first tech role, I made a completely free course  breaking down how you can land your first gub tech role.  Just make sure you click the link in the description below.  I walk you through everything that you need to know step by step and trust me, most people  are completely overlooking gub tech so you're going to want to watch this video.  Now out of these certifications that I've talked about in this video, if you're still trying  to figure out which one is going to be best for you, I recommend that you think about  where you would like to go in your career and how you would like to go about it.  Are you somebody who wants to just get started in your career as fast as possible?  Then I would recommend the security plus certification and then using that certification  to get entry level IT roles like help desk, IT support, IT technician, you'll be able  to land those roles with the security plus.  If you're somebody who wants to do more hands on roles and you have a lot of experience  with cabling, you might want to consider doing the security plus certification and the  Cisco CCNA certification because this will help you land a role at a data center either  as a data center technician or a network admin.  And if you're somebody who doesn't really know exactly where they want to go, but you  want to have a high chance of landing a six figure role in your first tech role, I definitely  recommend that you get the security plus certification and the RHCSA so that way you can go for  a junior Linux system administrator roles.  Once you learn Linux, you have a lot of different options for you.  You can decide to move forward either in cloud, you can decide to move forward in cybersecurity.  You can do networking whichever way that you would like to go, you can do it when you have  a strong Linux background and you have experience as a Linux system administrator.  Or if you really like Linux, you can continue to move up in your career as an infrastructure  engineer.  Or if you like to code, you could become a DevOps engineer.  You have a lot of different options available to you.  And if you're wondering if these career paths will outlast AI, the answer is yes.  These are some of the best career paths to be in because you're going to be focused  more on infrastructure and AI needs solid infrastructure to run.  So if you want to get into tech and you're ready to study for these certifications, the security  plus certification typically takes people anywhere from 60 to 90 days, but I have seen some  people that spend more time take about 30 days, get their security plus.  When it comes to getting the Cisco CCNA certification, that certification can be obtained within  two to four months, depending on how much you study.  And when it comes to getting the red hat certified to sad men certification, that certification  can take anywhere from three to six months again, it depends on how much time you study  and how much effort you really put into practicing and learning these hands on Linux skills.  Time management is extremely important to knock out any of these certifications.  So if you can set aside the time, you can get any of these certifications that you really  put your mind to look, I know the A plus certification sounds like the safe choice because  that's what everybody recommends.  But trust me, make sure you go the extra mile and get these other certifications because  they will help you out much more in your tech career.  Because while everybody else is getting the A plus certification and their resumes are  getting overlooked, you will be able to have a strong resume with different certifications  that will allow the companies to use you in many different ways.  It's even going to open you up to other job opportunities like the careers that I talked  about earlier in this video.  The starting salaries are going to be higher, your career progression is going to be much  faster, and you'll be dealing with cutting edge technology instead of just troubleshooting  printers.  If you want the complete roadmap to break into your first tech role in the GovTech industry,  I made a completely free course where I teach you step-by-step how you can land your first  GovTech role.  Links in the description, make sure you click it, and I'll see you over there.  See you in the next one, make sure you like, comment, and subscribe.
