But what are you saying? This is just not possible.  How is it possible?  Have you been here possible?  So you are saying this is the best cyber security road map on entire YouTube.  Cyber security is related to the mind of a person who has all the questions.  He will be clear after this video.  Yes.  But how are you so sure that this is the best?  Because I've been doing this for the past 5 years.  Hello friends, my name is Abhishek Chawriya, I am a cyber security instructor and consultant.  So in the past 5 years, I have worked for more than 30 companies.  I have had a network audit and a teaming internal audit.  The actual cyber security has also been done in that.  I have also worked with the NB police, which I used to solve.  I used to take care of criminals.  And the most important thing is that I have learnt everything myself.  Whatever you are going to study with me, you will get a full extension of my experience.  Let's start without any delay, our first road map video.  So now let's talk about what cyber security is actually.  What is cyber security?  Imagine that you are sitting in a cafe and you use free time.  And you are using UPI.  You go home and see that your entire work is being done.  Why?  Because there is a network behind you who is hacking your system.  Cyber security basically means protecting your data in digital world.  Like in real life, we use our network or server in digital world.  It's all about defending your computer, system, mobile application  from any kind of unauthorized access and attacks.  Today, everything is online.  Banking to shopping, education to healthcare.  We are becoming more digital.  Cyber attacks are not increasing.  Because somewhere in the world, someone is attacking a phishing.  Password is cracking.  Or someone is hacking a website.  And that's why every year, cyber security exports are increasing.  Now we are going to talk about three pillars of cyber security.  What is the most important and basic thing you need to learn is how data travels.  How does a machine talk to other machines?  In a simple word, networking.  Networking simply means that one or another computer is connected to you through different means.  Like IP, which is the unique address of every device.  Routers which are basically medium between your ISP and you.  Switches and protocols like TCP, which is the medium which we talk about on the internet.  Every cyber attack, whether it's steeping, spoofing or DDoS attack,  all happens over the network.  Which is why you must learn how networking works.  There is a dedicated video on this.  Till then, let's move to next pillar which is operating system.  So this pillar is about understanding the environment where attack happens.  Networking has told us how data travel.  Now, how do we control OS seeking a data process?  Everyone works on different operating systems.  It could be Windows, Linux or Mac.  That's why you must have knowledge about all these operating systems.  So OS is basically a manager of your hardware and software.  This decides to decide on which file will be accessed and which program will run.  Now, as a cyber security learner, you must have to focus on Linux.  Because most of the servers and tools navigate the Linux page you are going to use again.  Start learning basic commands per mission process and file management.  When you know how OS work, you can easily spot what is normal and what is suspicious.  So now you know about networking and operating system.  So let's move to the next pillar which is programming and scripting.  And this is where most of the students get scared.  When I don't get coding, can I start my career in cyber security?  Yes, you can.  But remember this sooner or later, you must have to understand how code works.  Because every malware exploit is made up of subcoding.  You don't need to be full-time software developer but you should know how to read and write scripts.  Start with basics, bash, shell and power shell.  Because they are the real tool used to analyze system and run security operations.  Once you get comfortable, you can explore Python or JavaScript.  Because they help you in scanning, automation and pen testing.  So if you are a beginner, then don't worry.  In cyber security, you will learn most of the things during your journey.  Now the question is, why cyber security?  What if I told you in 2020, I was earning in six desserts for a company.  And from there, I know that in India, cyber security has a lot of jobs but talented people are less.  So the question comes from where is C?  From here.  So cyber security goal is simple.  Confidentiality, integrity and availability must be maintained.  Confidentiality means that data can only be authorized.  Integrity means that data should not be modified without any permission.  Availability means that data should be available on time.  Means that there is an attack and the source of patch is not available at that time.  That means that there is a lot of disaster.  And that is why the availability of data is important.  Now comes the lap setup, practical playground.  How can I practice safely?  So where should I start?  See, you don't need a data center.  You should have a laptop and a large supply.  So now let's talk about the steps.  How can we set up our lap?  Now let's talk about the steps in which we install a hyper-visaap.  I will comment on virtual box or VM.  Then we will make a folder called Labs which will have all the VM files.  In fact, there is a code, organized labs make life easier.  Now let's talk about the steps in which we will install the three basic machines.  The black and the next machines, the packer machines, the windows machines,  which are the target machines.  And we will use Ubuntu for servers and web applications.  And after installation, take the snapshots of all the machines.  In step three, we will import our valuable targets  like metas, deployable, dvw, and was to shop on our Ubuntu server.  So in step four, we will install our basic tools like Nmap, metasploit,  wireshark and birthswood.  And yes, before installing them,  let's update Kalilnik's latest.  So we have to use our lab setup with some golden tools.  First, always isolate the lab.  Second, always take a snapshot before testing.  Third, and the most important, we have to test our environment  without any other environment.  After making our own lab, we can use some platforms to practice.  If you are a beginner, you can try hack me labs  because it is a beginner-friendly lab.  If you want real-world scenarios, then hack the box is a perfect solution for you.  If you want to practice a complete lab security, then my personal favorite is port circus lab.  Now you have tried all these platforms.  Now you want some adventurers to be mysterious.  Now you will try CTF.  Like Pico CTF and over the wire, that is the best one you can try.  Now let's talk about some of the options and opportunities.  So number one is Blue Teaming.  We call it Cyber Defender.  We have to investigate the pack, log analysis and incident response.  So for this, you should have some skills such as  Syncories, log entry and threat intelligence.  And if we talk about the tools,  then you should know the Splung, Microsoft, Sentinel and ELK.  So if you want to defend things, then Blue Teaming is for you.  So let's talk about Red Teaming and Mentesting.  Red Teaming is absolutely opposite.  These are attackers, but they are ethical.  They are used to find the system's weakness and exploit  so that your company is secure.  So for this, you should have some skills such as  vulnerability, assessment, exploitation and report writing.  And these are some tools for you to learn.  And I have met a exploit and birth suit.  If you like hacking, logic and problem solving,  then Red Teaming is perfect for you.  So now let's talk about Cloud Security and DevSecOps.  So basically, it's an easy or friendly career option because  you are shifting all the clouds.  If you like automation and cloud platform, then this career option is for you.  You should learn some skills if you want to go into Cloud Security.  Security tools by Amazon, Microsoft and Google.  And also if you have to learn, I am a container and intra-hygning.  Then there are tools such as Terraform and AWS Console.  So let's talk about Forensics and threat intelligence.  Forensics and DFI are an investigation role where you can collect your locks  and collect evidence.  And you recreate the whole story.  And this is my personal favorite because you can also solve  real cases with the police.  And for this, you should have some skills such as memory and disc  forensics, malware analysis and threat intelligence.  And for this, you should learn some tools such as  VRR, FTK and autopsy.  If you want to be a detective, you can solve cases  so this is the best career option.  Because I do work with the police and I solve cases with the police.  It can be fun.  And let's talk about the governments, risk and compliance.  Now let's talk about the processes and policies of those people.  These people decide what to do in a company  or what not to do for making the company more secure.  So you should have some skills such as risk assessment, frameworks and law.  If you like documentation and management, then this is the best career for you.  Now let's talk about one of the most asked questions, certifications.  All the students have a major question about certifications.  Certifications are important because they give you credibility.  Like you have studied about a particular skill and practiced more.  So it's basically three divisions.  First of all, there are big level certifications on your base  that how actually security works.  So first of all, certification comes with CompTIA A+.  If I see a basic system, hardware, functioning, troubleshooting, installation  and how IT systems talk to each other.  Next certification is CompTIA Network+.  This helps to understand the network configure, base and secure.  Basically, you are a networking pillar.  Third certification is CompTIA Security Blues.  It is used as a basic type of cyber security.  How does that happen?  And how does it secure?  Then let's talk about intermediate level certifications.  One basic thing is that you can move toward these certifications.  So the first certification of intermediate level is the EGPT,  which is called Junior Panitation Testar Exam.  Great for learning how practically ethical hacking works.  You can exploit and report writing like a real pen test.  Next we talk about CES, Certified Ethical Hacker,  the most famous and demanded certification in the industry.  You can expose your data towards different attack techniques and tools.  It is more of a theoretical and tool-based knowledge.  But it helps you to make a solid hacker mindset.  Third certification is CESA+.  You can focus immediately on your team work.  You can do pre-analysis, attack, and secure environment.  So you have to go to the right direction, red teaming, or blue teaming.  And here comes advanced level certifications.  Here comes the real challenge, OSCP.  Offensive Security Certified Practitioner.  OSCP.  It is considered as Gold Standard in Fantastic World.  No MCQ, no theory.  You have to hack real machines and report them in a limited timeline.  You don't even test your technical skills.  Your mindset, your patience, creativity and persistence.  If you have done OSCP, then you don't need to tell everyone about it.  You can tell how much your skill is.  Now let's talk about the growth of cellars.  The problem is that there is no scope in this domain at all.  So the first point is the SOC analysis.  Your cybersecurity career starts here.  If I talk about starting packets, then it takes up to 4-6 LPs.  And as such, experience and skills increase,  then your cellar jumps up to 12-25 LPs.  So the second one is the real life hackers.  The starting cells take up to 6-10 LPs.  And if you go to OSCP level, then your cellar jumps up to 25 LPs.  Now let's talk about cloud and forensics.  Because both the fields are very demanding,  so their average pack starts from 12-18 LPs.  Because you work around clouds, data recovery,  around which is very important for the company.  And if you go ahead and work on these skills,  then your cellar jumps up to 50 LPs.  And now let's talk about my favorite topic.  I have a lot of options.  I can do pen testing, small audits, and bug hunting.  The key is that you can earn as much as you can.  Because you get freedom to learn,  to work and there is no limitation in it.  You can do everything you want to do.  Now let's talk about the challenges.  Cyber security fields are very cool,  but there are a lot of challenges.  So first, turn out.  You can do the same work as you can.  But believe me, you will be able to help.  Because you can do the same things as you can do as you can.  But at the end, your skills are good.  Second is continuous learning,  which is a very important part of cyber security.  Because in cyber security, new things come,  new tools come, new technologies come,  if you don't keep your updated,  then you can go back.  I have been working in cyber security fields for five years,  but today I do research and do new tools.  Third is imposter syndrome.  You can track small things and make them very useful.  Learn new things daily and challenge yourself.  These are the things that you stand out.  Other people make your portfolio very useful.  Now, let's talk about the last and most important point of ethics.  Sometimes, don't do unauthorized hacking,  respect the craft.  Because our field is such that you can do something wrong.  As soon as you get some data,  you have to do something in your photo.  But you don't have to do all this.  So, practice your patience,  and make a great portfolio.  Now, let's talk about the impact of AI in cyber security.  If I honestly say that AI is not going to replace cyber security.  But it's transforming definitely how we work.  And yes, there are two divisions in this.  Like the first one, the repetitive task will get automated.  So, the advantage of this is that  the repetitive and patent-based task will be automated.  Like long analysis, vulnerability scanning and basic enumeration.  Which means that entry-level,  sock jobs and basic penetration testing will be automated.  But that's not a thread.  This is an opportunity.  To upgrade the output,  to automate,  to make it more creative.  So, now let's talk about the second point.  Human centric roles will stay.  AI can follow data,  but it can't think like human.  So, as a role,  just with creativity, strategy,  or real intuitions,  like advanced penetration testing,  thread hunting,  and bloating designing,  it can never replace AI.  AI can assist you,  but you can't replace it.  But still,  it depends on your thinking.  So, add that,  evolve and stay ahead.  So, how do you like the roadmap?  It's amazing, man.  I really loved it.  It's very valuable.  It's fun.  This was just a roadmap.  People are waiting for the actual value of the channel.  Deliver the power.  Definitely.
