Hey, what is going on everyone? This is Muhammad your personal pmp coach from certify with ease helping get pmp  Certified without reading a single page from a textbook without taking a 35-hour  Udemy course or without taking those expensive 10-hour a day pmp boot camps, okay?  So the topic of this video today is about pmp hacks or shortcuts and the pmp exam is a timed exam  If you can save on a couple of seconds per question  It's going to help you a lot at the end of the day a lot of people are finishing the exam right on the dot  Which is very dangerous a lot of people are not even finishing the exam on time  They're missing out in a lot of questions. You want to finish the exam comfortably as early as possible and these hacks  Slash shortcuts will help you, okay? So I got a bunch of questions ready that really  Put these put these hacks and shortcuts into action. So we're going to see all of these things right now all right  let's jump into these questions and  we will  I'll show you my methodology actually while we're doing the question together, okay?  So the first topic that we want to focus on is change management now. This is a shortcut any time  I'll note this down in your in your notebooks  Note this down on your laptops whatever may be on your phone any time  Anytime there's a change  That can potentially affect the scope  That can affect the budget or the schedule  You need to request a change in other words  You need to put in a change request. You need to perform the integrated change control process  Okay, let's look at that. That's that's a short hack for you, okay?  Number one, you are managing a software development project and during the testing phase a major defect is discovered in the core  functionality the defect was not identified during the design phase and now poses a significant risk to the project schedule  The client is unaware of this issue, but the project team believes that fixing the defect will require substantial rework  Potentially delaying the project by two weeks. What should the project manager do first? Okay?  Now forget about what the project manager should do first. What should you do as a test taker? You should  Read the question with purpose  So identify the problem statement. That's our first step. The first step is to identify what the actual problem is  I don't care that we're dealing with the software development project. I don't care that you know we're at the testing phase  Necessarily. I don't care that it's a core functionality. All I need to understand is that there's a defect  That's going to pose a significant risk to the project schedule the client is unaware of this  And the team believes that working on this defect is going to require substantial rework delaying the project by two weeks  Okay, in other words, there's this defect that's going to affect the project schedule  But if we focus on it  It's going to delay the project by two weeks. What should we do as a project manager first? Okay, now let's go back  All right, number one any time the question mentions first or next. This is a hack  Many of the answers can make sense, but look for the answer the respects principle number one  We go back up to principle number one always discuss  Investigate analyze ask before deciding on a solution  Meaning that you're going to collect information before actually taking action  Okay, that's your hack. Let's go back  So just to meet the answers  Which answers do you think should be the right answer you can pause this video and take a hit at a take a chance  But I would say the best answer is going to be submit a change request to the CCB to adjust the project schedule and budget accordingly  Okay  Now, let's look at the other option before we explain why the answer is D  Inform the client immediately about the defect and the potential delay to manage their expectations  Okay, that's not a bad solution the client is unaware the client is your end your end customer  We should be able to  Tell the clients everything  Tell the clients about everything to manage their expectations. All right  Convene a meeting with the project team to analyze the defect assess the impact on the project and develop possible solutions  Okay, now this is a very very good solution as well  This is the the project manager taking a step back collecting all the information and  assessing the impact and then moving forward  This is principle number one in action  Nothing wrong with that  Update the risk register to include the defect and its potential impact on the project schedule  All right, that's good too  We got a potential risk that the schedule is going to be delayed  Let's put it in the risk register  Now I purposely chose this problem  Which was done by chat GPT right it wasn't I wouldn't I didn't make it up but I asked chat GP to give me a hard problem  What should the answer be?  Remember we're looking for principle number one  We got D that respects principle number one. We got C that respects principle number one because we are looking at the potential impact  We are assessing be your specs principle number one as well  Which one should it be  This is where we use our change management skills  This is hack number one  Anytime there is  a change  That affects the project schedule the budget or the scope you want to implement a change request  These are going to be your answer  Okay, your exam questions are not going to be this difficult  They're not going to be this difficult, but if you get used to these difficult questions, you will pass the exam  That's just a fact  Hey question is you know, but but Mohammed  All the other answers they seem nice  Why do we need to you know, how does how does D respect principle number one?  I thought we need to take a step back and before we actually  Submit the change request we should gather all the information well, I'll respond with  The change request process  Includes everything  What is the change of control process number one?  The stakeholder in this case it could be the PM or one of the team members submits a formal change request  Number two, the PM looks at the change request  Assesses the change request now  Investigates gather all the information that is required  Takes at and then gives it to the CCB now the CCB is a board of let's say directors  They did they discuss with all the information that they have  at their disposal and  Then they decide  You know what we are going to reject or approve this change and then the changes communicated and executed upon  Okay, so in other words  this change control process  Includes principle number one, which is the PM taking a step back before deciding on a solution  Okay, very important that is all that you need to know for change request change management when it comes to the PMP exam  Again, I'm going to repeat this. I'm going to sound like a broken record  But I'm going to repeat this because it's so important any time  There's a change that affects the project scope the budget the schedule it needs to go through a change request  In contrary, if there's a change, let's say the director comes up to you and he says like hey  Can you change the the report font to size 15? It's a bit too small  Because that change does not affect the scope the budget the schedule it does not require a change control process, okay?  Let's move on  to another question  To really drill this point through all right  This is a long question  On your exam, you're not going to you're not going to get these long questions. I just asked a chat GPT to  Ask chat GPT to give me some hard questions. So I guess their version of hard  Is long all right  You know what let's do something interesting. Let's just dive into the answers. Let's see if we can figure out the answer  Okay, you guys can read the question on your own. So what should a project manager do first? Okay keyword first  Okay, that's our hack  Anytime the question mentions first or next  We need to look for principle number one  Before deciding on an action we need to gather enough information. Okay fine  Now we understand that  All right  Escalate the issue to project sponsor. No, we never escalate the issue to project sponsor  This is principle number eight. It contradicts our principle number eight  Okay, so if you look at principle number eight here  No running to sponsors  all right  Okay  Inform the client about the supplier delay and propose the alternative solution to keep the project on schedule despite the cost increase  Okay, now this contradicts our principle number two  We do not want to settle for extra costs immediately  That should not be the first answer that we choose  Let's move on  conduct a detailed impact analysis with the project team  Including evaluating the cost and schedule implication implication sorry of both the delay and alternative solution. Okay, that's a very good answer  I like this answer  You're conducting a detailed impact analysis with the project team  Why with the project team because the project team are your experts  They're the ones that are actually doing the physical work  Okay, number seven your team members are the experts  Not you make every decision with them  You're a simple your project manager. You're leading your managing  But they don't want to do the actual work. Okay, it's a good answer  Reject the supplies alternative solutions. We don't reject anything. We never reject especially a client's  Uh, a client's um request. Okay, so I'm just gonna show you guys this principle  So powerful guys these principles. I'm telling you just learn with these principles. You'll be fine  Never immediately reject the request and opportunity especially from a client. Okay  So I already know the answer is going to be C now. What's so special about C guys  What's so special about C is  That C is similar to a change request  The answer does not mention change request but it has all the components of a change request  You have a detailed impact analysis which is gathering information  You're evaluating the costs  Yes, you're looking at the schedule  You're looking at any other solutions and then you're going to  Decide. Okay, C is going to be our best answer in this case. Okay, then we got the answer without even reading the question  I'm telling you now this this whole exam is easy peasy  If you know what you're doing at I see a lot of people especially on Reddit  Going through months and months and months of studying  Man, I don't know how they do it, but you know congrats for them firstly  And um, it's just it's just not worth it at the end of the day. Okay now  Hack number two when a new piece of information is mentioned. Okay, now what does this mean  You might read a question and in the answer  They might mention something that has not been mentioned in the question  When that happens  Don't break your head  Just eliminate that answer  Those read this problem together  Imagine an IT infrastructure upgrade project  During the implementation phase a team member informs you that one of the servers being upgraded is experiencing  Intermittent intermediate failures  My apologies guys my English is not that great  This server is crucial for the project success  At any downtime could impact the project schedule  The team members suggest that the issue might be due to outdated firmware  But they're not certain the project is tight on schedule and any delays  Could be costly. Okay  Great. We have a key for key word. What should the PM do first  But anytime they mention first you highlight it first. Okay first  Principle number one that should click in your brain right away  Escalate the issue we never go to the project sponsor and escalate issues  We don't do that. This is a  A um a style the the PMP likes to mention a lot escalate the issue to project sponsor  We don't do that especially not immediately not first instruct the team to immediately roll back  The upgrade on the server to prevent further failures and stabilize the situation. Okay  All right  So that's not the that's not the best solution right away  Um  Because the team members suggest that the issue might be the outdated firmware  But they're not certain right some the best issue not the best situation  But let's move on investigate the server failure  By working with the IT team. So I already like the word investigate  To determine if the outdated firmware is the root cause and identify potential solutions  Very good. I love this solution a lot  And I'll explain why in a bit  Review lessons learned register from a similar project completed last year to find out how server okay  Now this is a good example  How do we know that there's a similar project that has been completed  the question does not indicate anything  Because the answer mentions a piece of new information that has not been mentioned in the question  We eliminate that answer. This is gone. This is our our small PMP hack in action  D is gone. C is going to be the answer  Why because we have principle number one in action  Investigate so gather information and we're going to use the root cause  root cause analysis  All right root cause analysis is one of the one of the most popular tools  That the PMP likes to mention a lot  So this has two components in it. We're going to gather information and then look for  The root cause and then identify potential solutions. Okay. C is going to be the best answer  All right, you know what this is a this is a similar question  you guys could try this question out yourself  and  I'm not going to read the answer. I'm not going to read the question  It's going to jump straight into the answer  What should the project manager do first? Okay, we got the keyword first  And I'm focusing a lot on these these problems situation-based problems because the majority 80% of the exam situation-based  Inform the clients about the bug and discuss potential impacts on the project schedule to manage their expectations. Okay  Again, you know, it's good to inform your client  But you don't want to do that first because you want to solve the situation and you don't want to freak out the client  Let's just put it on the side for now. That's not eliminated right away. It's probably a better solution  Conduct a root cause analysis. Okay root cause analysis are favorite word  With the development team to determine the severity of the bug and potential impact on the project timeline. Okay, very good  Conducting root cause analysis  We'll give us enough information we need to take appropriate action. I like it  See submit a change because okay  Mm-hmm, so I haven't read the question. I don't know if there's actually a change going on, but let's just see  To extend the project deadline to accommodate the time needed to fix the bug  All right, let's just keep this for now  We probably have to go back and read the question now review the defect logs from a similar project  Completed by another team to see if this bug has encountered before and how it was resolved  Okay, now this would make sense or this will be a really good solution if there was a similar project that has been completed in the past  Let's read the question now very quickly  You're managing a large-scale software development project  Okay, the project is in testing phase and your team has just identified a group of other effects of core functionality of the software  This bug was not detected earlier in the development process and fixing it could require significant rework  The sponsor has emphasized importance of maintaining the project schedule as a client has okay  Uh, as a client how sorry probably most have emphasized the importance of maintaining part of schedule as a client has a hard deadline for the software's  Launch however the team is concerned that fixing the bug might push the project past the deadline. Okay very good  Now we know what's going on  So what do you think the answer should be here?  So D is clearly not the answer because we don't know  They mentioned a piece of information  Sorry, that has not been mentioned with you eliminate that. I'm not gonna go with A. I'm gonna eliminate it. We have B or C now  Are we submitting a change request?  In other words, do we even know what to change?  We don't we simply don't know what to change  We don't know what to change  We don't even know what the problem is we know there's a bug  The best solution is going to be conducting a root cause analysis  And then looking at the severity of the bug and the impact  Once we have an idea of what the root problem is then that's when we submit that change request  To solve that root problem  The best answer here is going to be B. I like this question a lot because a lot of people in the CCCB or change control process  They immediately jump to it. Okay, so don't do what I'm doing right now  Which is skipping on reading the question. Obviously read the question on your exam  But  The best two answers are going to be B and C if you reprioritize them or if you prioritize them B is going to be a better answer. All right  All right, let's move on to the last bit the last hack  That I want to share with you guys. I'm sorry guys. This video is make my throat so dry  So because of that give it a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel again  We're starting this together this journey together. So I would really appreciate it  And that the channel's growing. Thanks to you guys. So  Thank you so much, you know, we're gonna have we'll reach a certain amount. We're gonna have a lot of a lot of fancy edits and all that kind of stuff  But the quality will always remain  Remain the best that I can produce. All right, so when the answer mentioned only  Now only is one of those words that eliminates all the other possibilities  And this is a general trick for for multiple choice questions  When the answer mentions an answer that eliminates all other possibilities eliminate that answer  Because the chances of that answer being correct are very slim  Right  So think about this. So let's just read this question  You're managing a construction project that is in execution the project is progressing progressing well  But the client has just requested a change to do the design that would add in you  Feature to the building. This change would increase the project cost and extend the timeline by two weeks  The client insists that this feature is essential as willing to pay for the additional cost  However, your project sponsor had expressed concern about the timeline  Impact and prefer not to delay the project  The team is confident that they can complete the additional work if they get an extension. What should the project manage do first  So you have a whole situation going on here where  Disclient wants to add something new to the project. It's going to increase the timeline and the cost client says  You know what I'll pay for it. No problem sponsors worried  And because of the timeline  And the team is like you know what we can do it. We can do it. Okay, if we get an extension we can do it  What should the PM do first?  Okay, approve the change request immediately since the client is willing to pay for the additional cost  No, we should always take a step back  We need to assess principal number one  Reject the change request. We never reject the change request  Not immediately. That should not be the first thing we do  Submit the change request. Okay. It's a change control board  For view and approval  Considering both the client's willingness to pay and the sponsor is concerned about the timeline beautiful  Beautiful beautiful beautiful solution  So meeting a change request encompasses everything encompasses the project manager collecting the appropriate information  Giving it to the ccb and the ccb analyzing the information  Okay  Inform the client that the project can only proceed with the change if the timeline is extended by two weeks  Okay, we got that keyword only now  So it can only proceed with the change if the timeline is extended by two weeks  Right  So let's just see  So do we do we this is actually two hacks in one  Have they indicated in the question that we need two weeks  Because I extend the time by two weeks  Okay, oh, maybe they did okay my bad. I just read it right now the project costs like extended timeline by two weeks  So inform a client the project can only proceed with the change if the timeline extended by two weeks. Okay fine  But only we eliminate that because  This this answer basically implies that there's no other possibility. Okay  The best answer because  There's going to be a change request the best answer is going to be seen  Okay, this is different from the previous one that we looked at because  There's a problem here in this question  There's no problem  There's no bug  Right, it's just a simple change request  All right, let's move on to the last question of the session  You are managing a marketing campaign project for a major product product launch the project is in the execution phase  and you've just received the request from a key stakeholder to incorporate an additional advertising  Channel that was not included in the original scope. Okay  Not included in the original scope that means we're affecting the scope somehow  I'm going to lean towards change requests just from the question. Well, let's just see what happens  implementing this change would require real at reallocating resources  And might impact the project timeline. Okay, affects the product schedule change requests  The sponsor is supportive of the idea  What has asked you to carefully assess the impact before making any decisions  The team is already stretched thin and any additional work could affect the ability to meet the current headlines  Okay, so this this question is very descriptive. You're not going to get a question that descriptive where they say that you know  You need to carefully assess you have to assume that you have to assess  What should the project manager do next  If they mentioned first or next same principle will look for principle number one  implement the change immediately. We don't do that. We need to take a step back  Reject a change. We don't do that. We never reject a change request or any request  The last principle principle 18  Evaluate the impact of the change on the project scope that's the answer  Proceed with the change because it is the best way to ensure the success of marketing campaign  No, evaluate the impact of the change on the project scope timeline resources and present the analysis  This analysis to change control board for a decision. Okay  That's the answer and on your exam. You're not going to get something so full not so complete like this  You are going to they're going to simply say submit a change request  or perform  Keyword perform integrated change control process  submit a change request or perform the integrated change control process or submit whatever to the ccb  You're going to get something like that. Okay, but they mean the same thing  Okay  So these are the three hacks that you can use on your exam  If you enjoyed this video, please give it a thumbs up and subscribe to the channel and please share this video  So you can help your fellow PMP  aspiring colleagues to get certified okay
