It's 2026 and I think it's the perfect year for you to become PMP certified.  In this video, I'm going to be going through all the materials that you should be reviewing  or studying in in order to pass your exam this year. I'm Andrew Amelio. I am the author of PMP  Exam Prep Simplified, Amazon's Best Sun and Study Guide for the free exam. And I'm also the creator  of Udemy's Best Sun and Course over 500,000 students combined over 750,000 students  have passed their exam with let's get started. So in this video, we have to talk about  not just one PMP exam but two PMP exam because it's 2026 and it's this year that the PMP exam will  change from its January as I make this video from this current exam to a new exam. So I broke this  video into two parts. Number one is we're going to talk about this current test. That's available.  You can only take this exam from January to June of this year and the new exam will come in July  to December. So if you're for whatever reason you want to take the new test which I actually don't  recommend, you may want to go school more towards the end of the video and find this part where I'm  talking about. If you want to become certified before July, then let's go ahead and go over all of  these things here. Now before I get into the actual exams and the materials that you should be  studying, the first thing I want to talk about is do you qualify for this exam? Then we're going  to take a look at the current exam. We'll take a look at things to study books, courses, exams.  I'll give you guys a quick secret of how to pass the current test and they'll end it off by  talking about that new exam coming out soon or I should say in July. So with that in mind,  let's get started. First thing we want to talk about is are you qualified to take this test?  Before we even look at all this stuff that you should be studying, ask yourself,  do I qualify? Can I go and take this exam? So I went to PMI.org and I copied and paced this right  off of their website. Now to take your PMP exam, you need to show three things. Number one,  you need to show, I should say number one, you need to show that you have some kind of education,  whether it's a high school diploma, bachelor's degree and above. Number two, you need to have  experience in managing projects. I'll talk a little bit more about that in a minute. And number three,  you need to take a 35 hour course. Now these are two different buckets. There are two buckets that  you can use to qualify for. Bucket number one is if you have a bachelor's degree or higher,  doesn't matter or global equivalence, doesn't matter what country it's from or where you're from,  it doesn't matter. As long as it's the global equivalent of a bachelor's degree. And the second bucket  is if you have anything under that, maybe you have an associate's degree or at least a high school  diploma, GED, that's that second bucket. So you have to determine, okay, Andrew, I am a bachelor's  degree candidate or am a high school diploma candidate. If you fall into the top bucket, well,  you're going to have to have, if you have a bachelor's degree, you're going to have to show  three years or 36 months of project management experience within the last eight years.  And you're going to have to take a 35 hour project management course, which what this video basically  is about coming up later. So just cross this one out, 35 hours and cross this one up, we'll cover  it was later. So the first thing up is, can you show me three years of working on different types  or similar projects over the last eight years? That's the key. Can you show me three years of  experience within the last eight years? Now this experience could be any kind of project,  construction projects, IT projects, advertising projects. In fact, it doesn't matter as long as  it was a project, then you're basically leading and managing this project. You do not have to have  the job type level project manager, but you would have need to do the work as a project manager,  such as leading a team, maybe you were managing budgets, maybe you were managing schedules,  you were crafting the scope, you were fixing team problems, those are all the tasks that project  managers does. So if you have a bachelor's degree in higher, you need to show me 36 months within  the last eight years. If you have a high school diploma, you're going to have to show me 60 months  or five years within the last eight years. You do not, or I should say, they do not need to be  consecutive. You don't have to be 21, 22, 23, no. You could show me 19 and 22 and 24. Doesn't matter.  How are you going to put this together? Well, you have to document your experience on an application,  and you have to submit it to PMI. Anybody's course, my course, anybody's class goes over this.  In fact, I have free videos on the technical and sort of America channel that basically tells you  exactly the full-outure application. I just have a video right here on the channel that shows you  guys how to fill out your application, utilize an AI just like that. Everybody's been using it,  and it's been working really well. Find that video. It's how to fill out your PMP application,  utilize an AI right here on the channel. It makes it super easy. Okay, so hopefully you guys qualify.  This is the current qualifications. If you're not too sure if you qualify, you know,  accidental lives from join me. I do PMP live streams every single Tuesday, seven PME's turn time,  right here on YouTube. If you join me and you ask me, I'll tell you what you qualify or not.  So, join me on a live stream, not just watching me now, but seeing me live. Let's continue.  Now, the current PMP exam, again, I'm recording this video in January. It's now January 2nd.  The current PMP exam came out in 2021. It's been out for quite a long time. It's been out for five  years. This exam came out in January 2021, and it's going to die in June, 2026.  So, once again, if you're taking the PMP exam between now, January, 2026 and June, 2026,  you're taking this test, this test that came out in 2021. This exam is based on a book that PMI  publishes. So, here's how to PMP exam works. The PMP exam is not really based on one particular guide.  It's not just based on their famous PEMBOC or PMBOK project management body of knowledge book.  It's not based on just one book. It's based on quite a few books, and it's really based on this  document PMI calls the exam content outline or the ECO. The ECO is a series of tasks. It is a series  of things that the exam will cover. In order to study the ECO, you study a variety of different  books, and I'm going to show you what those books are in a minute. So, once again, the current exam  came out in 2021. This is the ECO. This is the cover of it. If you want to find it, you can just  Google PMP ECO exam content outline 2021. I think because if you do that, you're going to find  it 26 also, the new one, and you'll be able to find this document. Now, when it comes to this  exam, I want to point out something to you. This exam covers basically, and the new one also will  cover basically three kinds of project management, predictive, agile, and hybrid. Look at what it says  here. I copypays this right out of the exam object. It says about half of the exam will represent  predictive project management, and the other half will present agile hybrid. Now,  that's what PMI is saying, that the exam would be half predictive and half agile.  I'll be realistic with you guys. 90% of my students tell me that. This exam is 60 plus percent  agile, and a little on the 40% are so predictive. That's what I would tell you guys. So, it's much  more than half agile on hybrid. That's more projects in this world of getting done utilizing  agile hybrid methods, PMIs update into that. So, keep that in mind when you're studying. Now,  if you're thinking about, well, Andrew, what should I be studying? What kind of materials should  I know? Well, if you want to study for this exam, let's take a look. Number one are the books.  What are the different books out there that you should be studying? Well,  number one is there's a quite a few books, okay? At the top of it lies the PEMBA Guide 7th edition.  This goes through all of the performance domains and the values of project management.  Now, remember what I told you that the exam really covers predictive and agile methods.  Hybrid is a combination of those. So, in order to learn predictive project management,  you would use the process group practice guide. This is the renamed of PEMBA Guide 6th edition.  The contents of the PEMBA Guide 6th edition is now in this book called the Process Group Practice Guide  and the agile practice guide. So, if you study this book, PEMBA Guide 7th edition gives you a nice  overview of the principles of project management. And then you study process group practice guide  for those 49 processes and all the different documents and plans. And you study the agile practice guide  technically that should complete the entire PEMBA knowledge base when it comes to the current PMP exam.  But that's a lot of stuff to read, man. I know. I read them all. That's a lot of stuff to read.  Process group practice guide, the agile, this year looking at over 1200 pages. I want to point  out something about PMI material. They're not very easy to read, right? The PEMBA Guide, like the  process group practice guide, oh my god, it's written by aliens for aliens. They're not meant to help  you prepare for an exam. They're there to be a reference guide for when you actually manage  in a project. I don't actually recommend you read this. And if you're saying why? Because they're not  easy to read. They're not exam preparation material. They don't actually have practice questions,  exam tips. They don't even review the exam content out on. This is just the knowledge base for  the entire exam. So what do I recommend you read? Well, I'm going to give you the best one out there.  I know. This is a, this is just a really bad plug. But I'm going to tell you guys that my study guide  is the best one out there. And if you're one there or don't stop the video and says,  and you're selling me things, I really want to give you guys the best stuff out there.  But my study guide is literally the best book on Amazon right now.  In fact, it was, it is the number one best selling PMP study guide on Amazon for the last  four, five years. It's been the top selling PMP study guide on Amazon for the last five years.  Right now, it's number one in the PMP. It's also number one in business project management. It  actually is out selling the Pemba guys. Check that out on Amazon. 2400 reviews. It's 4.6 out of five  stars. Now, I don't want to point out over 250,000 copies have been sold of this book.  And one of the reasons that it, it sells a lot is because it includes the 35 hour course.  Some organizations are charging thousands of dollars for a 35 hour course to get you  qualified for this exam. I give it to you absolutely free in the study guide. You get six  month access to that course. It's everything you need to know to pass your exam.  The physical book you can only buy it out on Amazon. If you want the ebook, you can get that at  tiaexams.com. If you want to get this study guide, the reviews speak for themselves, the rank  and speaks for themselves to help people pass their exam. Now, this is a book. This is  if you learn better by reading, get this study guide. But some of us  learn better by watching videos. Some of us are more visual learners than readers. I'm a reader.  I'm about to be honest with you guys. I make a lot of video content that you can see on here on  YouTube. But when I'm learning, I like to pick up a book and read. I don't know. I like the quiet  time. I'm a reader. But there are times when I'm learning and I just prefer to watch a video. Maybe  I'm driving and I just want to listen to somebody prefer to learn that way. I do take long drives  quite often. So there are all the ways. Now, when it comes to learning, you can read or you can  have somebody talk to you about it. This is going to be live instructor training. When it comes  to studying, you need that 35 hour course. There's only two ways to get a 35 hour course.  Again, I do give you one with the book, but that is an e-learning course. When it comes to this  35 hour course, remember, it's a requirement to take this exam. There's two ways to get it.  Either you take a live instructor lead training or you do it by yourself, self-paced.  You choose whatever option is best for you. Live instructor training will be  multiple, more expensive than self-paced. And I will tell you what I charge for them and you can  find one because I don't teach around the world. So there's all these instructors around the  world that are teaching. I'm not going to say anybody's good or bad, but what I'm going to tell you  guys is live instructor training is going to be more expensive. For example, if you buy this book on  Amazon, it's like 40-50 bucks. You get the 35 hour course with it. For 40-50 bucks, right?  You get a whole 35 hour course that qualifies you with self-paced course. You can go to Udemy,  which I'll mention. They charge 30-40 hours, maybe 20 bucks, 25 hours, something like that,  for one of their e-learning courses. An instructor lead course. In the United States,  we have it for $900, $700, $800. So it's much more expensive, but it is a live class.  You do get to action instructor questions. I teach live bootcamps also. Maybe in the link below,  you can find a link to my bootcamp. It's like a couple of $100. Why? Because you get me live and  go through the materials with you. So live instructor courses, if you're choosing a company,  please do yourself a couple of favor. Number one, ensure you know the company. Maybe I've heard  it then before. Maybe I heard a TIA. You're watching this video with me. Check the reviews on the  business. I always tell people this. It's not where you take a PMP class. It's who that's teaching  it that matters. All of the authorized training providers by PMI basically uses the exact same  materials. We use my materials. Make sure you check with that instructor. So what I'm saying,  the materials are generally the same. It's who's teaching the death matters.  If you want to take a course with us, check out tiaedu.com or tiexams.com. We have taught over 80,000  students, 4.9 out of five stars. Now, self-paces, of course, going to be a lot cheaper.  I just mentioned, again, you could get it with my book. If you go to Udemy, if you prefer,  if you don't want to buy the physical book, but you just want a 35-hour class,  I'm going to say, go on things like the Udemy platform. You can get it really cheap there.  Or I should say cost effective. Which one is the best one on Udemy?  You know what I'm going to tell you, right? Now, I don't want to brag. I don't want to be telling you,  hey, you know, I'm recommended my course because it's the number one course, but it really is the  number one fast. It is the top seven course on Udemy. It has over 160,000 reviews, 4.7 stars.  And currently, as I'm making this video, it has 524,000 people in roll.  That is a small nation. In fact, it's like a really small nation.  You guys can check this out. Go Udemy. You can search for my name. You can check this course out.  There are other amazing courses on Udemy. See whichever, or see which instructor works for you.  All right, moving on. So that's your 35-hour class. Those are the books for this particular exam.  The next thing you want to talk about now is practice exams. So when it comes to practice exams,  choose the practice exam that gets closest to the real exam. But it's not just about good questions.  You got to have good explanations. If you guys noticed right here on the YouTube channel,  I do have a whole lot of free practice questions. You guys can check out for the current exam.  My 200 ultra-hard questions has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times.  And the amount of people that have passed that it's free right here on YouTube. You guys can  check them out. The amount of people that have passed with that set of questions. It's 200 ultra-hard  questions is astonishing. You guys can check that out. Now, if you want a lot more practice  questions and what's on here on the YouTube channel, I would recommend my TIA exam simulator.  Go to tiexampt.com. It is super cost-effective. It's over a thousand questions. I think it's  a closest to the real exam. The good thing what separates this simulator from all the other practice  exam simulators, it's the only one that has video explanations. It's the only one where I go through  every single question and every single choice and I say that's right. That's wrong. When it comes  to this exam, it is important not just to know that the answer is A, it's to know why it's A.  You will never find an exam simulator that gives you the actual questions and answers. That's  against the law. So it's important to understand why something is right, why something is wrong.  I did a whole lot of video explanations in this. I put in a lot of time and effort.  15, I think it's 15 to 20 hours of content on that simulator. I do updated every 60 to 90 days.  There's how much of bundles you can get. tiexampt.com. Either I do do live coaching.  Once a week, I meet students and we go over questions, I cover topics and answer their questions.  Check that out on this website. So this to me is the best PMP exam simulator. You've got to see what  works for you here. Now, I want to point out that when it comes to passing this exam, you know,  people say, Hey Andrew, what's the secret to passing this exam? You know, I'm in browsing TikTok.  I was never a TikTok person, but I noticed a lot of my students are in TikToks. I said, you know,  I got to be on TikToks. I started browsing TikTok and I found a whole lot of folks  talking about secret of passing PMP and the PMP mindset. And then I came to realize, wait a minute.  Hey, that's my mindset. They all took my mindset and they're selling it to students.  The secret to passing this exam is a mindset. It's a mindset of how to select the best answers.  The PMP is a simulation is a scenario-based exam. And on a scenario exam, you have to know when to  choose the best answer. The mindset is a series of principles that I created when I wrote the  first book in 2021 that tells you how to select it. There's a lot of people out there that are  telling you to pay money for the mindset. The mindset is free. I give it away right here on the  channel. Have a video called the PMP mindset editor added in somewhere around here. I said,  he can see it. It's absolutely free. Do not pay people for it. I give it away. I do a lot of  practice because it's a long, long video. Watch it. That's a secret to passing. Know in the mindset.  All right? When you want to learn to mindset, don't learn it from some guy that just passed PMP  two weeks ago and is trying to cash in on him passing a test. Listen guys, I've been teaching PMP since  2007. I've taught combined with my life classes in the many years over a million students.  Believe that or not, over a million students. 750 just on this exam.  So when you want to learn the mindset, learn it from me. It's absolutely free. This exam is not about  memorization. It's about understanding. I'm always available. You guys can join me every Tuesday.  I do giveaways. Every Tuesday. I meet my students. I talk to them. Question and answers.  With you guys, every single Tuesday, for 2025, I miss three nights. So almost every Tuesday,  I'm here at the beginning of every month. The first Tuesday of every single month, I do a whole bunch  of giveaways. This video is coming out Monday morning. Tomorrow night, I will be doing a giveaway.  A massive giveaway to start the year every month. I do free giveaways. I sometimes throughout the  month, too. So join me on those live streams where I answer your questions. And I do practice  questions. So join me there. Okay. That concludes this portion of the video for the for the January  to June exam. Let's talk about the new exam. So first thing I want to mention to you guys is  don't take this test. There's no reason it's January. If you're watching this video in January,  don't take this test. The only reason to take this exam is if you're watching this video  and it's like June 2026. Like if it's June, you should probably take the new exam because I don't  know if you can, if you can, they really rush it and study for this current test, right? Obviously,  if you're watching this video after June, you got to take this exam. So  I want to just tell you what I know from it. This exam is brand new. This is the exam content  outlined. Just what the cover looks like. I did a video on this a couple of weeks ago. I spoke  about this exam in depth. As this year progresses, I'm going to do a whole lot more video on this as  I make more content for it. But let's just go through some things on it. So this current exam,  first of all, it still covers three approaches to project management. The percentage is slightly  now. Look at what it says. Approximately 40% of the items will represent predictive project  management approach. While they remain in 60, we'll be divided between agile hybrid, adaptive,  hybrid and agile management approaches. So it seems like the new exam, the current exam is already  40% predictive and 60% agile hybrid. The new exam I think will just continue that.  That's all this one is basically saying. Remember, there's not much information on this test.  It hasn't even come out yet. No one has taken in. When it comes to studying,  I just got a book. One book. The new exam is going to be running off of the PEMBA Guide 8 edition,  which I think is one of the best PEMBA guides out there. I've read it over the holiday vacations.  I've read this entire book. I think it's one of the better PEMBAX that was ever written  and keep in mind, guys. I've been studying and writing books for PEMBAX. Since PEMBAX 3 or 4,  one of those. I think it's 3. Maybe it's 3. I got certified in 2007, one of those books.  So this particular one, I think is a great book. If you are going, if you are beginning to study,  for whatever reason, you're beginning to study for this new exam coming in July,  you may want to get this book. You get it free as a PMI member, of course,  is available on Amazon, PMI's website, and so on and so on. It's really expensive to  it's like a hundred bucks. So something there to think about. Now, PMI says that they will be  releasing in new content, new courses, e-learning classes for the 35 hours, updated materials,  practice exams, and so on, starting in April. I will release new 35 hour class exam simulator  and 35 hour class and of course new boot camps in April also. So I will also be making new content  talking about this new exam. We'll go over things. I have a whole new course coming out  in Pembag ID edition. We'll talk about different types of practice questions. I'll make all  new ultra hard questions for it. As the year is progressing, right now it's January.  So I really don't want to speculate too much. No one really knows what's on this exam. Now,  my recommendation is this, it's January. Take your exams before January days. I'm  not sure if we're July. Why? Here's the thing. Anytime a new exam comes out,  need the author of the books and the courses, the trainers, all of us. Not just me. It's all of us.  I'm not special in this sense. Is that we are blind? We don't know how good the materials are.  We don't know how hard the exam is. We really don't know much about the tests. We are blind.  PMI just gives us the exam content outline for the authorized training providers. They get the course  where you teach it and you just hope that it matches the real test, right? Then July student  starts to take the exam and student starts to say things like, hey, Andrew, you know they had this  topic on the test or they covered this and you didn't talk about this. There were this type of  questions and I'm like, hmm, I guess there was a new top date and then I got to add it in,  then I got to edit the book and I got to edit the course. This goes on and on. I'll give you an  example. When the exam came out, current exam in 2025 in 2021, there was a topic added called  MBTI, the Myer Briggs type indicator. They added this to the PMP test. It wasn't even in the exam  objectives, but people were getting questions on it. So my student says, hey, Andrew, what's MBTI?  And I'm like, I have no idea. I've never worked in corporate America. I was always a consultant,  and then I went on business. I don't use these things to put people into buckets based on their  personality because I don't believe people believe in buckets based on their personality.  So I've never used it, but it's covered on the exam. And I'm like, what the hell is MBTI? I don't know.  So I had to learn it and then I realized what it was and I made a video on it. I updated the book,  I updated the video course and that's going to happen with this new test. All kinds of topics are  coming out, all kinds of things they're testing on. In other words, what I'm trying to say is this.  The materials that are available, whether you buy my materials or anybody else's,  is really good. It's really accurate to the current test. When that new test comes out in July,  nobody's material is going to be perfect. It's going to be missing things or elaborate too much  on one and then elaborate too much on the other. Some people have got to go and take the exam  and give feedback and then from the feedback, we update the course. That alone is enough reason.  Why you should do the last line, take your exam before July guys, if you could. I mean, obviously,  if you're watching this video in July has passed. Well, welcome to the new exam. As the year  progress, I will make a whole lot more content on this. All right, that is this video, guys,  on everything you need to study to pass your exam. So let's just summarize it. Number one,  there are going to be two PMP exam this year. One that's available from January to June.  The other one is going to be July to December. If you're studying for the exam from January to June,  make sure you study the, if you want to study my study, guys, great. If not, you read PMI books,  you get the PEMBAG-I-7 edition PMI process group practice, guys, and the agile practice, guys,  or you can just get my study, guys. If you are taking for your 35-hour class,  you can actually get that free in my study, guys, or you can take a live instructor train in,  anywhere you like, anywhere around the world. I would say take it with my company,  ti.edu.com, or ti.exams.com. If you want the 35-hour class, again, you get it with my study, guys,  or you can get it on the Udemy platform if you just want to, of course, itself. And it comes to  practice exams, do the TI exam simulator. I know PMI has their own one. I believe mine is better.  I actually have video expositions. If you're taking your exam between July and December,  then what I would recommend for you to do is start reading the PEMBAG-I-8 edition,  as that will contain the topics needed for that exam. Guys, that ends this video. If you found  value in this video, give the video a like, subscribe to the channel. I say I have a ton of content  coming out for, of course, this current exam, and, of course, the new exam is going to be a really  fun year, I should say. So with that in mind, guys, thank you guys for watching,  and I'll see you guys in the next video.
