In this video, we're going to be talking about the new PMP exam that's coming out in July  of 2026.  PMI just released the entire exam content outline, and there is a bunch of changes that  I believe is going to make this test incredibly hard, and I'm going to prove that to you guys  in this video.  A couple of quick things.  It's now easier to qualify for the new exam than it was before.  That I thought was pretty cool, but the exam to me is going to get significantly harder.  I'll prove that to you in this video.  Let's get started.  I'm Andrew Ramdial.  I'm the author of the world's best send-in PMP study guy.  PMP exam prep simplified and you'd create a view of the best send-in course with over  a half a million students.  Let's get started on this.  Let's just get right into this.  The PMP yesterday, which was November 13th, PMI announced the new PMP exam comes out  in July of 2026.  Today is November 14th.  Later on in the day, they released all the information on the new exam included that  it's going to get longer.  Let's go right into this and I'll show you guys where to find this information and we'll  take a look through the exam content outline.  Let's get into this.  Let's go to PMI.org so you guys can follow along with me here.  I'm going to go to certification.  We're going to go to PMP and the website is still showing the old exam because the current  exam, which I guess is the old exam now, is valid until the end of June 2026.  This is all the old exam.  All of this is still the old exam.  I want to point out something to you guys that the old exam, the current exam, which I  guess is the old exam, in order to take it, you need to have a certain amount of experience  either 60 months or 36 months if you have a degree or not have a degree and this all has  to be within the last eight years.  That's the current requirement for the current test, right?  This changes.  You'll see what I mean.  Let's go down here.  The new exam coming in 2026.  Let's click on learn more and takes you here.  All right.  So now it's telling you about the new exam and let's go through a couple of the things here  on the pages.  So PMI is saying that they will be doing a pilot of this exam.  In January, January 5th or 30th, 2026, people can take a pilot, which means that you could  take this new exam as an optional test.  I don't recommend doing that if you want to get your certification because you may not  know the scores for months to end and there's really no study materials for it.  But if you're brave enough and you want to give it a shot, you could, the exam fully launches  with the fully updated exam objectives in July 2026.  They don't have an exact cutoff date.  It could be any day in July, the let us know later in the year.  PMI materials, such as their e-learning classes, their study hall products, and so on, will  be available in April 2026.  And my materials will be available in that around that time too.  I am writing a brand new study guide for this exam, as the new exam content outline is here.  It's going to be much better than the one I have currently.  All right.  Let's continue going here.  I'm going to download this here in a second.  A couple of quick things they're just saying right off the bat.  What did they add?  Well, we all know AI was going to get added to this test.  It adds topics like AI, sustainability, and stakeholder engagement.  I always thought stakeholder engagement was on the test a lot, but they're saying they're  going to add more shifts, more focused outcomes and value instead of processes that they  had before.  Couple of quick things you'll notice that the exam drastically changes the terms or percentages.  The old exam was 42% people.  This is managing your team, managing your stakeholders, engaging your stakeholders.  Now it's gone down to 33%.  Knowing those 49 processes, those agile ceremonies and artifacts goes from 50 to 41%.  And this is big.  The business environment, which is more of regulations, organizational policies and procedures, goes  from 8% to 26.  That's a huge jump in there.  It still covers predictive agile and hybrid on the new exam.  And here's where it changes a little bit.  Before your experience going back needed to be within the last eight years.  Now they're saying that the experience could be within the last 10 years.  So that's good because there are certain people, I know people that have never qualified  to take the PMP because their experience, I know one student in particular, she wanted  to take the PMP, but her experience was going really far back.  So she couldn't do it, but I think she qualifies with this new thing and there are some new,  it says three to five years, there's some new things in there.  And this is the part that I think this exam is going to get a lot harder.  The old exam, 230 minutes for 180 questions.  Now it's 185 questions in 240 minutes with interactive scenario based questions.  You'll see what I mean in a minute.  This, the exam to me is going to get a lot harder because of this.  Let's go through the exam, the exam content outline.  And I will show you guys what I mean.  Just a couple of quick things on the timeline.  If you want to take this pile, you want to take this new exam for whatever reason and share  your feedback, it is going to be 20% cheaper.  I'm assuming starting December 15th, you can start signing up to attempt this pilot.  April 26th, PMI releases all their products, the new exam comes out July, 2026.  All right, nothing else here on this page.  I'm going to scroll up.  I'm going to download this exam content outline, which I have right here.  All right, here it is, the exam content outline.  Let's go through this here, a couple of quick things here that we want to mention.  Nothing here, it's telling you, it's going to be, of course, this exam is going to pull  a lot of its content from the Pemba Guide 8th edition.  So no need to read six or seven or anymore.  But remember, this exam content outline is not based on the Pemba Guide.  There are other books that PMI uses to make their exam.  So I want you guys to understand that.  Although the Pemba Guide 8th edition is going to be one of the main texts it uses, the exam  is based on this, not necessarily the Pemba Guide.  All right, let's keep on going here.  So this here we mentioned that people is now 33%, 41%, 26%, seems like a nice even  distribution across the three environments versus the old one.  This I taught was pretty cool, but some things that changed, check this out.  Look at what it says.  Let's zoom in here.  Approximately 40% of the items will represent predictive project management processes.  They predict the project management approaches, whereas 60% would be divided between adaptive  agile and hybrid.  So that change before it was generally 50, 50.  Now agile, hybrid gets 60% versus predictive has gone down to 40%, which I think kind  of makes sense because in the current world, a lot of projects are hybrid.  In other words, part of it is done in agile, part of it is done in predictive.  And some people say, well, that's not for all projects.  It technically could be because if you think about it, most software projects are basically  agile right now, even construction projects, designing a big structure can be done in iterative  or incremental ways, but building the structure could be done in predictive ways.  So yes, construction, giant construction projects, the majority of them are probably going  to be predictive, but they could include components of adaptive methods, which brings me to hybrid  methods.  So I think PMI is absolutely right.  40% predictive, I would assume it would have been lower because so much of the world  has incorporated agile into their projects.  Let's keep going here.  Now I'm not going to go through the entire domain, all the different things that the test  will test you on because that's not what this video is.  When I make the new course, when I make the new certification study guides, I will go  in depth into this.  We'll get a new mindset to go with this in here.  And this is what the exam will cover.  This exam content outline is what I used to write the books.  It's what I used to make the course.  So I go over this and I cover this in depth.  Like task one, develop a common vision, have a shared vision with state, have a shared  vision with key stakeholders, promote the vision, keep the current, keep the vision current  and so on.  I will use all of these things that you guys see here from leading the team, managing  the conflict, engaging your stakeholder and so on and so on.  That's all the people.  Here's all the processes.  I will utilize all of this when I make the course, when I make the book out there and some  if you remember, in my current courses, I have an entire breakdown of the current exam content  outline, reviewing all of it.  So we'll go over all of this in the course itself.  No need to go over it right now.  Okay, moving on here, and this is where it changes.  So this is interesting.  Check this out, guys.  All of the experience has to be within the last 10 years.  Now this is big because since I remember myself, the experience always have to be within  the last eight years.  So now they're going back up to 10 years.  I think that's pretty cool.  The next thing that's changing up, before there were two levels, if you had a bachelor's  degree and above or anything under a bachelor's degree.  So if you had a bachelor's degree and above, it was 36 months of experience you had to show.  If you had anything below a bachelor's degree, you had to show 60 months.  But now it kind of changes it much.  If you have a high school diploma or a GD, you have to show 60 months or basically five  years of leading projects within the last 10 years.  They're all within the last 10 years.  That stays the same.  But if you have an associate completion of an associate level, higher, higher certificate  or advanced technical vocational program, this is good.  You need to show four years of experience.  So this is brand new.  This line right here is completely brand new.  Now I think that's pretty cool because I met a lot of people in the trades that have  certificates in plumbing and electrical and those people always working on projects.  But there was no way for them to show that.  They always have to show this five year thing.  Now they only have to show four years.  So I thought that's pretty cool.  An associate degree, higher level certificates, thank God, PMI added this and recognized people  in the trades that don't have, listen, you don't need a bachelor's degree to be a plumber  or an electrician, yet those people are vital to the function of society today.  Bachelors degree, this is going to stay the same for bachelor's degree or higher, any kind  of bachelor's degree or higher.  And even advanced professional qualification, three years of experience, this doesn't change,  but it's all within the last 10 years.  Now PMI has accredited some organizations and some degrees.  You can click on the link and find out more about it.  If you're, if you're degree qualified, you can check that out.  You need to show 24 months of experience or two years of experience in there.  All right.  So this changed up a lot.  This, I think, is great.  It allows more people to qualify, more people to take the exam, move it on here.  You still need to take your 35-hour class.  That hasn't changed.  It's 35 hours of commercial training and project management aligned with the topics  covered in this ECU.  Where are you going to get this from?  Well, of course, they're authorized training providers and other things, including accredited  higher institution, like a college or a degree, employer sponsored programs.  And then this is where I fall into training companies or consultants to training schools  like myself, Maya Yudami, a self-paced on-demand, which includes an end-of-course assessment.  So yes, the Yudami course would still count, taking a live training, but also will, of  course, still count for that 35 hours.  Thank God for that.  For me anyhow.  Moving on here.  They're telling you to, you could use, if you worked, if you have a degree and you want  to use, you want to prove that that degree gave you to 35 hours, they kind of outlined  that.  How you would do that right here.  Moving on here.  They tell you how to do your application.  I'll do a video as this exam gets closer, how to outline your application, how to do your  experience on this one.  It's basically the same thing as the other one.  Now let's talk of the test itself.  I started this video by telling you guys that this exam is going to get difficult.  And I want to point out something to you guys.  Most people that takes the current exam have a problem with the timer, most not all.  A lot of students runs that clock.  What do I mean by that?  They finish in just enough time.  I, yesterday I was teaching my coaching program to a bunch of, a bunch of folks.  And one person told me past the exam and he had about three or four seconds left.  In other words, 230 minutes, 230 minutes, 180 questions almost ran out the clock.  This exam is different.  This exam is even longer and they only give you 10 minutes more with a bigger questions.  Let's take a look at the new questions that are coming out.  And then I'll show you guys to you guys why this is things.  So number one is it's 175 questions will be scored.  None of the questions will not be scored.  And you don't know what they are.  Your objective is just to get as much right as possible as you do on any exam you've ever  taken.  The exam now goes five questions more.  It was 180.  Now it's 185 questions.  But you do get 10 minutes more to answer those five questions.  But here is the problem.  You're saying, okay, five questions, all right, five questions, 10 minutes more.  But the questions are much bigger.  You'll see what I mean.  The other thing I don't like here, look at this.  Right now, if you take the current test, you're going to get two 10 minute breaks.  Notice what it says here for the PMP.  They are two five minute breaks.  The first breaks occurs after the case study section.  And the second breaks occurs approximately midway through the independent portion.  Let's break this down.  The case study section.  So there is going to be a whole section on this test where it's a bunch of case studies,  which will consume your time.  Please know that once you review your, once you review, you can't go back and say it.  So wait a minute.  There are two five minute breaks in the exam.  I'm not, I'm not a fan of that.  Five minutes.  What are you going to do in five minutes?  By the time you get up, you go to the bathroom.  You come back five minutes.  It's, it's, it's probably not even enough.  That's crazy.  It is still going to be an online exam.  The exam is preceded by tutorial, all that things, takes five to 10 minutes complete.  So not good.  I'm not a fan of this.  PMI.  What are you doing here?  PMI.  Two five minute breaks.  Really?  What?  Come on, man.  But you know what five minutes is?  I went to the kitchen.  I got myself a rice cake and I came back to film this video and I realized five minutes  had passed.  Yeah.  It's crazy.  That's, that's not good.  Five minutes.  Why didn't you keep the two 10 minute break?  You know, why five minutes?  Come on, man.  Not good.  Not happy with that.  Very, very upset on that.  I don't know.  You know, what I'm assuming, the people that wrote this is already PMP certified, I want  to make your life miserable.  I don't know.  I don't have any other saying why do we do that?  Think about this.  You read a whole long section.  Your brain is fried.  You take a break.  You get up for a minute.  You come back.  Come on, man.  Not good.  Not happy with that.  Keep the two 10 minute breaks.  PMI, if you're watching this, Mr. Pierre Lamont, Mr. CEO, I know you got the power in the  company, man, to change these things, please keep the two 10 minute breaks.  Please reconsider it.  The exam has not launched.  You're going to give people bigger questions.  Please keep the two 10 minute breaks.  Not happy with that.  All right.  Moving on, let's take a look at the new questions and this is called case or this is brand new  and this is where I believe this exam is going to get a whole lot tougher.  Look at how big this is.  I'm not going to go through this case study.  The candidate will be presented with a detailed scenario situation, which may include, so it's  not just text, graphs, and charts for additional context.  After reviewing the scenario, the camera answers a series of questions.  Now, yesterday I did a video on this.  I told you guys, this is how scenario exams are based on.  I've taken a lot of exams like this, we're going to give it this giant amount of paragraphs  to read.  The CIS SP exam was like this a while back and you have to read and read and read it  probably four or five paragraphs, like you see on the screen here.  And you got to answer a bunch of questions on it.  Now, I never thought these were really difficult on other exams.  I don't know how difficult it's going to be on this test, but this will consume that  time.  And to me, it's harder because you have to memorize a lot of stuff.  You have to remember, in the current exam, you've just got to remember a few sentences  word of data.  Now, you have to memorize five paragraphs of the word of data, and then you only get a  five minute break.  Come on, man.  So it seems like the exam is going to be split up into the first section.  So they're going to, it seems like they're going to have a section of case studies.  And then they're going to have another section of multiple choice questions.  That's how it seems it's going to be.  All right.  So you got this giant case study, let me just talk about this, then you have enhanced  matches.  So we already have matching questions, but this is an enhanced matching.  So they're going to give you a graph and you've got to drag things onto the graph.  Like, is this where it's ahead, where it's behind schedule?  This to me, I think is going to be pretty easy.  Just understand in a reading grasp, burn up, burn down charts, I think is pretty simple  to understand.  New questions are going to have this colleague graphics based question.  The question refer requires the candidate to refer to an interpret visual information.  So they're going to give you graphs, diagrams and images, and you have to read it and then  answer questions on it.  I thought they had this before, but some are something similar, but I guess they're going  to enhance it more.  This stays the same multi choice single responses.  So multiple answered choices with one correct answer.  That's common.  They have that now, multi responses, multiple answered choices with more than one correct  answer.  All right.  So not any of these here is changed.  We have already have this point and click to give you a graph and you got a point where  something is going right or wrong on the graph.  They have this right now, nothing new.  Matching questions, nothing new.  They give you things and you got to drag things over the whole video on this before.  And you pull down this, I have not seen before, this seems, they're not calling it new,  but I've not seen one before where you got to select from a drop down list, almost the  same basically as a multiple choice, I guess.  All right.  Move it on here.  Taking the exam doesn't change.  You can take it in person in person view, also as an online proctored exam that you  can still take it home.  I was kind of worried that PMI may pull the online proctored exam due to people doing  bad things with it, proxy testing, if you know what that is, where you hire people to  take the test for you, that's a bad thing still happening today.  I was hoping they would have kept this because it just makes it more accessible.  So that doesn't change.  You have one year, when you get, when your application is approved, you have exactly one year,  you get three attempts at it, God forbid you fail in a three trial, you still have to wait  one year to retake it.  That has not changed.  That concludes everything here on the new exam.  Now, might take on this.  Here's what I want you guys to do.  Take the current test.  This new test seems, yesterday I predicted that this new test is going to be super hard.  After seeing this thing, oh my God, this doesn't look like an easy test.  This looks like a pain to do.  I don't think studying for it, you know, I read the entire Pembach I ate edition last night,  like almost a whole book.  It took me about five hours, sat on red, basically the whole thing.  And it's not a very big change.  It's nothing revolutionary, nothing that I haven't learned before.  But here's what I'll tell you guys.  This exam is not to be played with.  185 questions, 240 minutes, two five minute breaks, scenario galore, a whole section  it seems to be on scenario.  And they're going to wear you out because they're giving you a break after this, five minutes.  I don't know.  I think scenario-based questions are harder than memorization.  You see, scenario-based questions is about choosing the best answer.  And when you have to choose the best answer, it makes the test more difficult.  It makes the test because now you have to play between two answers.  That sort of mindset is going to be really, really important.  So what I would tell you guys is, listen, it's November 14th.  Take your test, man.  Take your exam right now if you could because you got seven and a half months until June,  until July, 2026.  You got a lot of time.  The current test is well-knowing.  The mindsets are there.  The practice questions are there.  The video courses are there.  The study guides, all the materials are there.  People notice tests.  There's tons of things on forms of what people are using to study and all of them.  This new test comes out.  It's going to be months before people understand.  When I make my study materials, I'll be honest with you guys.  When I make study materials, I'm assuming it's effective until students come back to  me and say, Hey, Andrew, you missed that topic.  I got a question on this.  You never heard it.  Then I'm like, I got to update it.  This goes on for months on it and until we realize how effective the study materials  is.  It's not just me.  It's going to be everybody.  The point is, take your current test.  Now, here's what I would recommend to you guys.  You have from now until June, the only time, my recommendation, that you should be studying  for this new exam is if you are going to start studying in June of next year.  If you're starting to study in June of next year, for whatever reason, you don't want  to study until June, then study for the new test.  By then, a lot of materials, PMI is releasing in April.  I release it around the same time.  The point is, get certified.  If you can do it before June, go do it.  If you start studying, if you can only start studying by June, maybe you got a job thing  or they're going to pay for it in June or something, then you're stuck with the new test.  That's what I recommend.  With that in mind, guys, if you found value in this video, give the video a like.  Subscribe to the channel.  I have a whole bunch of interesting information.  A whole mini course coming on Pemba Guide 8 Edition in a few weeks.  Check that out, guys.  Hopefully you guys enjoyed this video and I'll see you in the next video.
