I passed the CompTia security plus in less than two weeks with just five tips nobody tells you.  PBQ's or performance based questions are the hardest part of the exam and the most points.  The best free resource I used was cybercraft on YouTube and its security plus PBQ playlist.  He's going to walk you through exactly how to approach these questions which will make you  significantly more prepared for the exam. Tip number two, security controls showed up quite a bit  on the exam. Here's how I studied them. You're going to want to go into ChatGBT and use this prompt.  Repetition through examples is the best way to actually recognize and understand the differences  between them rather than just memorization. Tip number three is what I use when watching videos  or reading textbooks and it's a study method called active recall. Every few videos you watch or  every few pages pause and write down a summarization or key points from memory and if you struggle  or can't remember much you didn't actually digest the information because most of the time you don't  even realize that you're not digesting the information so this method actually forces your brain to  actively recall rather than passively absorb information. Tip number four, the security plus has  quite a bit of scenario based questions which are designed to make all answers seem correct.  However, there's one trick that you can use. There's always going to be at least one subtle key word  or phrase in the question that points to the exact answer. You just have to spot it. When taking  the exam and you come across a scenario based question, slow down and read like you're actually searching  for that one word or detail that feels out of place or put there on purpose and that will be your  clue that eliminates all the other answers and points to exactly to the correct answer. Tip number  five may seem obvious but it is very important. When taking the exam, do not just flag the questions  that you're unsure of. Make sure to also flag the questions where you're 50-50 between two answers  or even a question where you're 90% sure of the answer but maybe something feels off. This does  two things. Number one, you're not wasting time and number two, at the end of the exam instead of  reviewing all 90 questions, you have an exact list of all the questions that may need a second look,  questions you're unsure of or form between two answers, etc. If the follow button because I'm  going to post a complete list of all the free resources I use for the security plus and other
