In 2026, your tech career will be defined by one thing, your ability to prove that you can  actually do the work. And with AI making it easier than ever to cheat on traditional multiple  choice exams, companies are getting smarter. They don't care about your test score. All they  care about are your hands on skills. And what this means is that the value of tech certifications  are changing dramatically. Some tech certifications are becoming worthless, others are becoming more  valuable than college degrees. And in this video, I'm going to dive into my definitive no BS tier  list of the tech certifications that you should actually be getting in 2026 ranked from F tier  all the way to S tier. Make sure that you subscribe to my channel y'all are watching getting all  of this valuable information that's helping you land tech jobs and move up in your tech career.  All I ask for you to do is hit the subscribe button and like this video. All right, now let's get  right into it starting with F tier certifications. These are the certifications that have the lowest  ROI. They're redundant or they're simply not respected in the tech industry anymore. First certification  is the CompTIA plus certification. And this is a foundational IT certification that covers basic  hardware, software, and troubleshooting skills. And what it does is just show that you understand  basic computer skills. But my issue with this certification is that it's a two-part exam. It calls  $500 and a lot of people still don't get jobs after they get the certifications. Some people take  over 12 months to get this cert. I think the better certification to get is actually a completely  different certification. And I'll talk about that next. 10 years ago, this certification was  valuable. It might have been able to get you a job paying maybe 10 to $15 an hour in help desk.  But nowadays, it's not going to get you that. Because of this fact, I would just say completely  skip the A plus certification. If you want to know more about my justification on why you should  skip it, I have another video that I made all about the A plus certification, the links in the  description. You can watch it after this. And by the way, if you're wondering how I know which  tech certifications are better than others, I am somebody who has been working in tech literally  my whole life. I've spent over 15 years working in the tech industry. I started from help desk  making $10 an hour at 16 years old to now making over $300,000 a year as a principal system engineer.  I've helped thousands of people land tech jobs. I've reviewed over 1,300 resumes. And I've seen  which tech certifications actually lead to job offers. And which ones just are a piece of paper  and they don't help you at all. Anyway, enough about me back to the tier list. The next certification  is the CEH, which is the certified ethical hacker certification. This certification is offered  by EC council. And it claims to help you think like a hacker. But what it does is really cover  penetration testing concepts. And it's mostly theory with no hands on components to it. And because  non hands on certifications aren't helpful compared to certifications like the OSCP, this is just  seen as a paper certification. And most hiring managers really don't care about it, especially  if you're going after penetration tester roles. This test is a little difficult, but it's very  expensive. It costs close to $1,000. So I would definitely say skip this certification. If you want  to be a penetration tester, you should get the OSCP instead. The next certification is the Google  Cyber Certificate. And this is a beginner level certificate not to be confused with a certification.  It's offered through Coursera. And what this does is teach you basic cybersecurity concepts. It  teaches you about Python, but it's not recognized by any employers. It's not a real certification.  And because of the fact that you have to pay $50 per month on Coursera and it takes three to six months  to get, I would say just don't spend your time on it. The next certification is the Microsoft AZ-900,  which is the Azure Fundamentals certification. And this is a very entry level basic cloud certification  for Microsoft Azure's platform. And it's not going to give you any real cloud skills. If you want  to get real cloud skills, you should go and do actual cloud labs. And you can find cloud labs on YouTube  or you can use different AI tools like Chad Gbt or Claude and actually get some real cloud skills  by deploying different cloud VMs. This certification is very easy. It only takes about a week to get.  And this is why it's an F tier certification. I would say skip it and go straight for the AZ-104,  which is a higher certification. Now, moving on to the D tier certifications. These certifications  have a low ROI, unless they're specifically required by the job. This certification that I'm going to  start with is the ITF plus. And the ITF plus is better than the A plus certification. And the reason  being is it's just $104. And it only takes a couple of months to get at most. And for people that are  looking to see if they even like tech, I would say get the ITF plus if you're somebody who needs a  certification to feel like you're making some actual progress towards your tech career. But you still  don't need to sit for this certification. It is a certification that is used by the military  to weed people out of different tech roles. So this is something that you can definitely look into.  And I want to make it clear that the ITF plus is only useful if you're starting from absolute zero.  And if you're somebody who feels like you must get a certification just to add something to your  resume. But I'm telling you, you're much better off just spending your time and money on more  respected certifications. The next certification is the Comptia Pintest Plus. It covers different  penetration testing concepts. And it has some hands-on skills, but not actually like spitting up a VM.  So this certification does take a lot of effort to get through. I see people take anywhere from  three to four months to get the Pintest Plus. And this is not going to be something that can  compete with the OSCP certification, which is going to be all hands-on-one, and a sandbox  environment where you're actually testing and you're actually trying to hack into the sandbox.  So this is just going to be all theory, all multiple choice. The only reason why I even gave it  detail is because in the GovTech sector, it is a well-respected certification. It can help you get  seen by hiring managers by getting this certification. But it does not mean that it's going to help you  land a penetration tester role, especially if you have no experience. The next certification is  the Microsoft AZ 104, which is the Azure Administrator certification. I believe even with AI that  administrators are going to be needed. Since there's going to be so many different cloud environments,  they're going to still need different system administrators. And Azure environments are more  common than AWS. And that's why I put this in the D tier. And this will be a good certification to  start getting your foot in the door with system administrator roles. If you pair it with other hands-on  certifications as well, like the red hat certified to admin certification, this certification shouldn't  take you longer than one to two months. And this is going to be a D tier certification. It's very  job-specific. So you should get this certification only if you absolutely need it. The next certification  is the Cyber Arc Defender certification. And this is going to be another vendor-specific cert. This  certification is going to be good for people who want to get into identity access management. I do  believe that identity access management roles can be roles that AI will replace. So I'm not the biggest  IAM fan. But if you're looking to start off in your career and you want to eventually get into IAM,  I don't think it's a bad idea. But I do think you should eventually venture out into system  administration or even system engineer roles instead. It really should take you longer than a  month to get the Cyber Arc certification. And the main issue is that it's too niche. And if the  company that you're looking to work at doesn't use Cyber Arc, it's not going to be very helpful for  you. And that's why I think that the Azure IAM certification is a better certification to get  when it comes to IAM or even the Octa IAM certifications. Now let's talk about C2 certifications.  These are going to be more specialized certifications that actually can help you land a job.  The first certification we're going to start with is actually two certifications. The Splunk Core  and Power User Certification. Pretty much every shop uses Splunk. This is a very popular SIM tool.  And it's going to allow you to actually start to get your foot in the door in Cyber Security  Analysts roles. So if you want to work in a sock, a lot of socks are going to be using Splunk  for your SIM tool and for just identifying if different threats are real threats or if they're  not real threats. And seeing if there's anything that you need to do when you see these threats  that come up in your SIM tool. You compare the Splunk certifications with the CYSA plus certifications  and it will help you get on the right path to getting into a Cyber Security Analysts role.  I recommend that you spend your time and focus on getting an entry level IT role before you even  decide to look at Cyber Security. And I have a full Cyber Security Roadmap video. I'll put that  link in the description as well. And you can watch that after this video. So you have a full idea  of which certifications are worth your time and which certifications you should just completely skip.  The next certification is the TCM Security Blue Team Certification. And this is offered by TCM  Security and it focuses on Blue Team Cyber Security skills. So it teaches you how to detect and  respond to different Cyber Security threats. This is not something that you're going to see pop up  on different job descriptions, but it will give you some hands on skills. So although it's not  truly respected by hiring managers, those practical skills they cannot be beat. So this certification,  it takes anywhere from two to three months for people to get. And it's going to help you specialize  in Blue Team Operations if you want to work in a sock. It's great for learning, but don't expect  it to actually open up any doors for you. The next certification is the Comtia CYSA Plus.  This is a mid-level Cyber Security certification, offered by Comtia. And again, this is another  certification that covers threat detection analysis. Also, it covers threat response and incident  response. For this certification, it's not hands on, but it is respected by different hiring  managers. Specifically within GovTech, I would say that it's not as respected in the general  broad tech industry. But if you're somebody who's looking to get a role at a government contractor  company, this is definitely going to be a certification that opens up the door to Cyber Security  analyst roles for you. Now again, another caveat to that that I have to say is that if you have  no experience, you don't have a clearance and you don't have a degree, just getting the CYSA  Plus is not going to land you a Cyber Security role. It shouldn't take you more than one month to get  your CYSA Plus certification if you already have your security plus. And this certification is  again going to be another $400 certification. So it is expensive. The next certification is the  Microsoft AZ 500 Azure Security Engineer certification. And this is going to be for security engineers  that focus on Azure. So this is now going to allow you to combine cloud skills with security skills.  And this certification, it is going to be great for you because if you're somebody who wants to  actually step into the cloud security realm. And as I talked about earlier, Azure is used by many  different corporations. So it's going to be a very common platform that you'll find on different  job descriptions. And this certification really shouldn't take you more than one to three months  depending on how good your skill set is already when it comes to Azure. And it's going to be very  job specific. But it is something that recruiters will be searching for. So if you want recruiters  to reach out to you on LinkedIn, they do actually search for this certification. The next certification  is the cyber arc century certification. And this is another vendor specific search offered by  cyber arc. And this is the next level above the cyber arc defender search. And what this certification  does is it proves that you have theoretical skills and hands on skills with the cyber arc solution.  And again, because this is cyber arc, it's not used everywhere. It's not a widely used tool  by majority of companies. But the companies that do use cyber arc, this will allow you to be put  on their radar. So this certification can take you anywhere from two to three months to get  depending on where you are in your career. So if you're in a cyber arc shop, this is going to be great  for you. But otherwise, it's going to be too niche. Now we're going to get to the good stuff, the  B tier certifications. These are going to be emerging niche or good supplemental certifications that  can help boost your tech career. First, B tier certification is the comp tier security plus. And  this is going to be a foundational entry level cyber security certification. And this does not  mean you're going to go straight to a cyber security role. But it helps you learn cyber security  concepts, cyber security management, risk analysis. And it's going to just help you get your foot in  the door into entry level IT roles. When I say entry level IT roles, I'm talking about help desks,  IT support, IT technician, data center technician. No, this job will not allow you to go straight  to $200,000 a year, but it will put you on the path to a six figure tech career. This certification  is extremely valuable in gub tech. It's going to allow you to get root access to government systems.  And so if you want to get a job as a government contractor at government contractor companies,  or if you want to work for the federal government, this would be a good certification for you.  In terms of the general broad tech industry, the security plus is still a good certification,  because it shows that you did much more work compared to somebody who got the A plus certification,  or even somebody who went out and got the Google cyber security certificate. I think the  security plus certification has one of the best ROI's, which is return on investment,  compared to any tech certification out there. The security plus certification calls $404,  but there are ways for you to get discounts on the cert. You can buy older certifications that  are about to expire, or you can buy certifications from other people who have decided, hey,  I'm just not going to take the certification anymore. The next certification is the SISM,  which is the Certified Information Security Manager Certification. This is a management-focused  certification offered by Isaka, and this proves that you can manage an information security program.  And this is going to be for people who already have experience. I believe you need to have  three years of experience that even sit for this certification, but trust me, I've seen people with  no experience still somehow be able to sit for it, and this certification can add a lot of income  to your salary if you're somebody who already has cybersecurity experience. So if you're looking  to step more into the cybersecurity management space, but you don't want to go for the CISSP,  I think that the SISM certification is a great mix between kind of the PMP certification  and the SIS certification. So this will be a great certification for people who want to go down  that management cybersecurity route, but don't want to go for the CISSP. The SISM certification  is expensive. It's going to cost you around $700 if you aren't an Isaka member. If you are a Isaka  member, it's in the $500 range. But this is still a great certification. So if you're somebody who's  looking to invest in your career and you want to move into that cybersecurity management realm,  I definitely suggest you look at the SISM certification because even with AI, we still will need  cyber managers for sure. Next certification is the SISM certification, which is the certified  information system auditor. And this is going to be an audit focused certification also offered by  Isaka. And this proves that you can audit control and assess IT systems. There is a high demand for  IT auditor and GRC professionals in cybersecurity. So this certification, I do think that is great  to get, but you need to understand that if you have no tech experience, it's not 2020 anymore.  You're not going to be able to go and get the SISM certification and then just go straight into  a IT auditor role. It doesn't really work like that anymore. And the certification is pretty expensive.  Isaka certs aren't cheap. And again, it's going to be around $575 for Isaka members. And it's  going to be in the $700 range for people who aren't Isaka members. But if you have the experience  and you want to step up in the GRC space, definitely get the SISM certification for sure.  Next, we have the SISCO CCNA certification, which is the SISCO certified network associate  cert. This certification is great. It's a great foundational networking certification offered  by SISCO. Pretty much everywhere you look, you will see everybody using SISCO. I'm talking  from data centers to corporations, to government contractors, government agencies, literally  everybody uses SISCO. So if you want to get a network administrator role, if you have no experience,  this is going to be a great certification for you to get. It's not going to be easy. Okay,  you're going to have to study. You're going to need to spend time. It takes most people on average,  three to six months to get the CCNA certification. But there's no better networking certification for  people who do not have any experience. If you want to step into either network administration roles  or even data center technician roles, this is going to be the best certification for you to get  to start your networking journey. Next, we have the Comtia Security X. And this is a new expert level  certification offered by Comtia. It was rebranded from CASP to the Security X. And what this does is  it validates your ability to be able to design and implement secure systems. So this is an advanced  cybersecurity practitioner certification. But it's still not a hands-on search, but it is actually  very valuable in the GovTech space. This is another certification that's going to unlock different  roles for you. This is going to be something that's very valuable in the DOD 8570 realm. I made  another video on that as well. You can go look it up on my channel. This certification is expensive.  It's a certification that's in the $400 range as well. This certification is great if you want to  move up in your cybersecurity career in your focus on GovTech. The last certification for tier B is  the Microsoft SC300, which is Identity and Access Administrative Certification. And this is  an Azure focus certification. So it proves that you can manage identities and access in Azure.  And this certification is an extreme high demand because everybody uses Azure. This Azure everywhere,  you have to make sure that the people that are working at your company or your organization have  access to the right resources and have access to the right groups. So I believe that this certification  is probably one of the best IAM certifications that you can get for sure. Now we're going into  the Elite Territory, the A tier certification. These are solid mid-level to advanced certifications  that provide career mobility and help you move up in your tech career. First we have the Microsoft  Azure AI Security Engineer Certification. This is a new certification offered by Microsoft. And this  came out I believe in 2025 or at the end of 2024. And it proves that you can implement security  controls for AI workloads that are one Azure. And this certification is going to be highly  valuable right now because AI security is the future. So every company that's using AI and  companies that have cybersecurity organizations within their company, which is pretty much every  company, they are going to start moving into AI security. And right now hiring managers, they are  looking for people that have this cert because there's not really a good way to tell who has the  AI security skills yet. And so when recruiters and hiring managers are looking for people,  this at least gives them the idea and understanding that, hey, this person is committed to AI security.  Let's at least bring them in and have a conversation with them. Now your skills and what you actually do  and the labs that you've done, that's going to be on you. But this certification can help you get  looks from recruiters and hiring managers for sure. Next certification is the RACSE, which is the  Red Hat Certified Engineer Certification. This is an advanced Linux certification from Red Hat.  And what it does is it proves that you can automate and manage different Linux systems at scale.  And because this certification focuses on Ansible and Automation, this is going to help make  you future proof because automation is where we're heading. And with AI, we are going to need the AI  infrastructure to help support where AI is headed. And Linux and Red Hat is going to be the backbone of  this AI infrastructure. So this is definitely an A-tier certification. It's hard to get  and it's hands on. It costs about $500 to get the exam. And so this is definitely a certification  you want to get if you want to focus on AI infrastructure for sure. The next certification is the AIGP  certification, which is the AI governance professional certification. This is a non-technical certification  focused on AI governance, ethics, and compliance. And so for people who want to focus on GRC and governance  of the new AI world, this certification is going to be in high demand. So pretty much every company,  every government agency, government contractor company, they are scrambling to find professionals  who understand the AI landscape and understand how we apply GRC concepts to AI. So if you are an AI  professional, you're more non-technical. Maybe you want to be a technical product manager, a project manager,  or you're already in the GRC space. This is going to be a great certification for you to get for sure.  Next, we have the Comp-Tia Sec AI certification, which is a brand new certification that's offered  by Comp-Tia. And it comes out in February, 2026. And so this certification is going to be focused  on AI security. And it is not a vendor-specific certification. And so that's what's going to make  this certification good. If you just want to show employers that you're moving on and you're  focusing on AI security, this is going to be a great certification to signal that. Again, this doesn't  mean that you're going to be able to get an AI cyber security role. This is going to signal that  you are moving with the trends. So this certification is definitely something that I believe people  should look at. Now again, it's brand new, so there aren't any practice exams or anything out  yet. But this is definitely a certification I think people should look at in 2026. It is perfectly  positioned for the AI era of security. And finally, STR certifications. These are the high  impact high investment certifications for the 200 K plus roles. These are certifications that will  change your life. I'm talking certifications that will put you in a whole new realm in your tech  career. The first STR certification is the Sands G CAD, which is the Geo Cloud Security Architect  and Design Certification. This is a deep hands-on technical certification from Sands that proves you  can design and build secure cloud architectures. And I believe that where tech is headed, we need to make  sure that we're focused more on architecting and not just doing the hands-on work. Thinking and  being an architect is what's going to set you apart in this new AI world. And Sands is the gold  standard for hands-on practical skills. So you definitely want to take a look at this certification  if you want to combine cloud and security skills together. And here's a pro tip. If you can't afford  the Sands certification, Sands has put together a free AI knowledge hub on Google's Notebook LM.  And this is a great resource that's going to be able to give you access to Sands level knowledge  for free. So I'm going to put the link in the description so you can just take a look at it and you  can start learning these different Sands skills as well. And they're also going to be offering new  different Sands AI certifications towards the end of 2026. So definitely keep your eye out for  these search. They'll have an offensive AI certification, a Gen AI and LLM certification, and also  they'll have an automated security with Gen AI certification as well. So you definitely want to  keep an eye out on these Sands certifications. And I recommend that you make sure that your  employer pays for Sands certifications because they are very expensive. Next, we have the C CAD  certification which is the Certified Kubernetes Application Developer Cert. And what this is is  a hands-on certification from the Cloud Native Computing Foundation. And this proves that you can  develop and deploy applications on Kubernetes. And the AI world, Kubernetes is super valuable.  So this is the industry standard for container orchestration. And you want to make sure that you  have Kubernetes skills. So if you're somebody who wants to get into DevOps, DevSecOps, infrastructure  engineering, platform engineering, you definitely need to get this certification. It's going to help  you stand out for sure. And this certification can help you get into jobs that pay anywhere between  $150,000 all the way up to $300,000 plus a year. Next, we have the OSCP certification which is the  offensive security certified professional cert. And this is the gold standard for penetration  certifications. And this certification proves that you can exploit vulnerabilities in real world  system. This is the best hands-on certification to get. If you want to become a penetration  tester, you need to look at the OSCP. The OSCP certification can definitely allow you to command anywhere  from $150,000 to $200,000 plus. Now, it is very expensive. It costs $1,600 worth of course,  and for the exam. But this is one that is going to pay itself all. Next, we have the AWS SysOps  administrator certification. And this certification is going to be great for when it comes to SysOps  and deploying different AWS VMs and making sure that the company always has access to their AWS  infrastructure and AWS resources. Even though AWS isn't used as much as Azure, they're definitely  moving up the ranks. And it could be what sets you apart from other cloud engineers for sure.  Next, we have the NVIDIA certifications. And these are going to be a suite of certifications offered  by NVIDIA for AI, data, science, and deep learning. And with these AI certifications, NVIDIA  is the undisputed king of AI hardware. And being certified by NVIDIA is like being certified by  the source. So if you want to be at the highest level of tech, I definitely recommend you look at  these NVIDIA certifications for sure. Next, we have this CISSP, which is a certified information  system security professional certification. And this is going to be a high level management  certification for experience security practitioners. And you need at least five years of experience  for this certification, but it is worth its weight and gold. This is for people that are going to be  able to design, implement, and manage best in class cybersecurity programs. So if you want to head  down the CSO track, this is going to be a hard requirement for CSO and director level cybersecurity  roles. So this is not entry level, but this is something that you can aim for when you move  further one in your career. And this is going to be a major salary unlock. It can easily allow you  to make over $200,000 a year in cybersecurity with the CISSP certification. All right. And that wraps  up all of our certifications for 2026. Now the certification landscape is changing. It's not about  collecting as many certifications you can. It's about being strategic and focusing on hands-on  practical certifications that prove that you can do the job. And like I said at the beginning,  with AI making it easier to cheat on traditional exams, AI making it easier for us to do our job as  technical professionals, you need to make sure that you are focusing on certifications that prove  that you have hands-on skills and a respected across the industry. So I want you to use this  tier list as your guide for the next two years. Focus on the S tier and the A-tail certifications.  If you're just getting started, go after the more entry level certifications so that way you can  get your foot in the door. If you want a personalized roadmap to figure out which one of these  certifications is right for you and how you can navigate in your tech career and scale up in your  tech career, then make sure that you click the link in the description below. You can apply to work  with me. I'll help you get your first tech job or your next tech job and help you scale up in your  career. So I hope you liked this video. Make sure you like, comment and subscribe and let me know  what you think about these certifications. Did I miss any? See you on the next video.
